README.md, before:

# Inmanta web console

[Docs](./docs/index.md)

## Intro

This project is the current frontend of for the inmanta service orchestrator.  
The eventual goal is to replace the current dashboard entirely.  
The console is developed in typescript using react and redux (through [easy peasy](https://easy-peasy.now.sh/)).  
Testing is performed using cypress.

## UX Guideliness

The frontend uses the (patternfly v4 framework)[https://www.patternfly.org/v4/] for its UI components. The choice of the framework is motived by:

- Use by many (mostly RedHat backed) infra products (Cockpit, Openstack, Openshift, Keycloack, ...) The advantage of this is that the scope of the component is similar and the design will have some familiarity.
- There are extensive UX guideliness included with the project both in general and per component.

## Development setup

    yarn # install dependencies

    yarn build # build the project

    yarn start # start the development server

    yarn test # run the test suite

    yarn lint # Run the linter

    yarn format # Run the code formatter

    yarn bundle-profile:analyze # Launch a tool to inspect the bundle size

    yarn cypress-test # Run tests with Cypress

To enable authentication with keycloak, you can use environment variables, e.g. add the following variable to a dotenv (`.env` in the root of the project) file (further information on <https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv>)

    SHOULD_USE_AUTH=true

You can also specify the url of the keycloak server in the same file:

    KEYCLOAK_URL=<Your keycloak server url>

Alternatively, the keycloak parameters can also be specified in an external file in the production environment, called config.js, following the example src/config.js file.

The base url of the backend services can also be specified here, e.g.:

    API_BASEURL=http://localhost:8888

Cypress can be configured via cypress.json (or command line arguments), e.g. to record videos of each test run:

    "video": true

### Pre-commit hook

`husky` configures the git hooks. https://github.com/typicode/husky  
`lint-staged` runs scripts on matched staged source files. https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged  
There is no need to manually configure anything. Just by installing the dependencies, the git hooks are configured.

Commit message:

Add the needed scripts for a clean setup for E2E automation. (Issue #4305, PR #4374)
# Description

This PR closes the first steps in the automation for the e2e tests. Two scripts have been added separately, and are being sequentially called in the jenkinsfile to run the tests.

Both commands can be ran independently from the pipeline.

## setup-server.sh
This will pull in the local-setup repository from Gitlab. Builds the docker containers for the orchestrator and install the lsm-test modules. It will always copy the latest dist available on your current branch (The jenkins pipeline is building a new version in the e2e stage). But it means you can have any version locally you wish to run the tests.

## clear-server.sh
This script is meant to be run AFTER you have setup a server. It will destroy the docker containers and remove the temp folder containing the local-setup repo.

closes *#4305*

# Self Check:

Strike through any lines that are not applicable (`~~line~~`) then check the box

- [x] Attached issue to pull request
- [x] Changelog entry
- [x] Code is clear and sufficiently documented

# Reviewer Checklist:

- [ ] Sufficient test cases (reproduces the bug/tests the requested feature)
- [ ] Code is clear and sufficiently documented
- [ ] Correct, in line with design

README.md, after:

# Inmanta web console

[Docs](./docs/index.md)

## Intro

This project is the current frontend of for the inmanta service orchestrator.  
The eventual goal is to replace the current dashboard entirely.  
The console is developed in typescript using react and redux (through [easy peasy](https://easy-peasy.now.sh/)).  
Testing is performed using cypress.

## UX Guideliness

The frontend uses the (patternfly v4 framework)[https://www.patternfly.org/v4/] for its UI components. The choice of the framework is motived by:

- Use by many (mostly RedHat backed) infra products (Cockpit, Openstack, Openshift, Keycloack, ...) The advantage of this is that the scope of the component is similar and the design will have some familiarity.
- There are extensive UX guideliness included with the project both in general and per component.

## Development setup

    yarn # install dependencies

    yarn build # build the project

    yarn start # start the development server

    yarn test # run the test suite

    yarn lint # Run the linter

    yarn format # Run the code formatter

    yarn bundle-profile:analyze # Launch a tool to inspect the bundle size

    yarn setup-server:lsm # Will setup and install an orchestrator running on port 8888 with lsm modules.

    yarn cypress-test # Run tests with Cypress (Requires the previous command to run succesfully)

    yarn kill-server:lsm # This will remove the temporary folder containing the local-setup repo and destroy the docker containers that were setup previously with the setup-server:lsm command.

### PAT
You will need to create a file `env.sh` in `shell-scripts` folder containing the variable GITLAB_TOKEN. It should look like so: 
``export GITLAB_TOKEN=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx``
(xxxx equals your PAT token, of course.)

## Authentication
To enable authentication with keycloak, you can use environment variables, e.g. add the following variable to a dotenv (`.env` in the root of the project) file (further information on <https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv>)

    SHOULD_USE_AUTH=true

You can also specify the url of the keycloak server in the same file:

    KEYCLOAK_URL=<Your keycloak server url>

Alternatively, the keycloak parameters can also be specified in an external file in the production environment, called config.js, following the example src/config.js file.

The base url of the backend services can also be specified here, e.g.:

    API_BASEURL=http://localhost:8888

Cypress can be configured via cypress.json (or command line arguments), e.g. to record videos of each test run:

    "video": true

### Pre-commit hook

`husky` configures the git hooks. https://github.com/typicode/husky  
`lint-staged` runs scripts on matched staged source files. https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged  
There is no need to manually configure anything. Just by installing the dependencies, the git hooks are configured.
